<!-- en :: YouTube Autotranslation Considered Harmful :: 2025-06-02 13:09:11 -->

I'm a bilingual person. I was born and still live in Brazil, and so I speak
natively brazilian Portuguese. I had the opportunity to study English and now,
as I'm 20, I can understand and talk in it rather well: to the point where if I
do not speak much with anyone, I'll have used more English than Portuguese
during my day.

English is my "work" language: my computer is set to English. I usually study
computing in English. I hang out in English forums and social networks. And I
watch YouTube in English.

But I also watch it in Portuguese.

I guess no one in that company knows that bilingual people exist, because
YouTube automatically translates the titles of the Portuguese videos I watch to
English, and it started automatically dubbing those videos too, so instead of
playing a video and beeing greeted by the content creator speaking Portuguese,
I'm greeted by an AI speaking English.

The translation is not good, ever. Translation itself will always lose meaning.
This is of course much worse when you have a broken translation. I wonder what
the person that though of this feature was thinking. To be fair, I wonder if
they think at all, because this is so fucking stupid it's comical.

You cannot simply tell YouTube to stop doing this. No, it's forced up on you.
Actually, if you play a video with no text in the thumbnail, you won't know
if you're reading and listening the original or a translation (hoping they won't
put this feature in thumbnails also!). And that's dangerous. They're literally
putting words on creator's mouth's.

The translation is so bad,
[it does not recognize dialects](https://www.reddit.com/r/youtube/comments/1kjndo3/what_is_the_point_of_forcing_translated_titles/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button).
And you shouldn't be defending this feature by saying that "the target audience
is monolingual people" because 1) so we should be allowed to disable it, and 2)
I only properly speak 2 languages, there's infinitely more I don't. And if a
video is not available with good subtitles in the 2 languages I do speak, I
won't be using autotranslation to watch it because I know I won't be listening
or reading the creator.

You wouldn't autodub a Netflix show. Actually, most people watch shows in the
original with subtitles in their language. Because that's the way to go if you
want to understand it. Entonation tells you a lot, and autodubbing loses that.
